New documentation structure and content (#195)
liteflow-labs/liteflow-js: docs/pages/products/nft-collection.mdx

---
title: 'NFT Collections'
---

import { Card } from '../../components/Card'
import { Cards, Steps } from 'nextra-theme-docs'

> # Collection & NFT mint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Collection & NFT Minting
```

> Liteflow offers a flexible approach to NFT collection creation and minting, catering to various business models. Our platform supports creation of public open editions, private collections, and the integration of external collections, all of which are complemented by lazy minting functionality to optimize gas fees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Liteflow empowers diverse NFT strategies with customizable collection creation and minting options. Benefit from our support for public open editions, exclusive private collections, external collection integration, and lazy minting to conserve gas fees.
```

## Features

<Cards num={3}>
  <Card title="Open Edition Collections">

>     Facilitate user-generated content with unlimited NFT minting potential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Facilitate user-generated content and community engagement with unlimited NFT minting.
```

  </Card>
  <Card title="Private Collections">

>     Maintain exclusive control over NFT creation and sales, akin to an online

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Maintain exclusive control over NFT minting, similar to a private online storefront.
```

>     shop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

  </Card>

>   <Card title="Import External Collections">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <Card title="External Collections">
```

>     Easily incorporate external collections like PFPs, games, and memberships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Easily import & incorporate external collections like PFPs, games, and memberships.
```

  </Card>
  <Card title="Drops">

>     Enable users to participate in drops, sparking initial sales and engagement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Enable users to participate in NFT drops, sparking initial sales and engagement.
```

  </Card>
  <Card title="Ownership Standards">
    Choose between ERC721 or ERC1155 standards to match your collection’s needs.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Lazy Minting">

>     Optimize budget by minting NFTs only upon sale to reduce upfront costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Mint NFTs only upon sale to efficiently manage costs.
```

  </Card>
</Cards>

> 

Reviewer: ### Multi-Chain Compatibility
Our product seamlessly integrates with a variety of blockchain ecosystems to provide a versatile and expansive user experience. It is fully compatible with major chains including Ethereum, Polygon, Binance Smart Chain, and LightLink, as well as other EVM-compatible chains.

Author: Similarly, here, we need to choose either multi-chain and remove another one, or we don't put the multichain, which could be confusing as it is. may be perceived as a collection deployed on multiple chains at the same time in this context

> ## Choosing Your NFT Type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Select Your NFT Collection Type
```

### Collection Types

**Open Edition**:

> Ideal for UGC, these collections impose no cap on NFT numbers, offering freedom for user minting and metadata customization. Less suitable for controlled NFT issuance and metadata management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideal for UGC, these collections impose no cap on NFT supply, offering freedom for user minting and metadata customization. Less suitable for controlled NFT issuance and metadata management.
```

**Private Collection**:
Best for NFT-based e-commerce with full control over metadata and issuance. Not designed for user-minting scenarios.

> ### Ownership Models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Ownership Standards
```

**ERC721**:
For unique, singularly-owned NFTs, creating distinct value and rarity.

**ERC1155**:
For NFTs with shared ownership, perfect for memberships or game items where multiple copies are beneficial.

## How to Use It

<Steps>

### Collection Creation

> From the [dashboard](/tools/dashboard), select and tailor your collection type: open edition, private, or external limited edition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the [dashboard](/tools/dashboard), select and tailor your collection type from open edition to private collection.
```

### Public Minting

Enable public minting of open editions through the integrated minter in our [marketplace template](/templates/marketplace), [API](/tools/graphql-api), or [SDK](/tools/sdk-core).

> ### Minting for Private Collections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Private Collection Minting
```

Mint NFTs for your private collection using the minter in the [dashboard](/tools/dashboard).

> ### Implementing Drops

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Drops Implementation
```

> Set up a drop via the [dashboard](/tools/dashboard) to allow users to mint a predefined number of NFTs, available through the [marketplace template](/templates/marketplace).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up a drop via the [dashboard](/tools/dashboard) to allow users to mint a predefined number of NFTs through custom rules, available through the [marketplace template](/templates/marketplace).
```
